---
title: Workflow
---

**Workflow to write profiles**

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-file-document: &nbsp; **[Write a blanck profile](#add-a-blank-profile)**

</div>
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-download: &nbsp; **[Install the profile](#individual-profile)**

</div>
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-test-tube: &nbsp; **[Profile the program](#program-profiling)**

</div>
<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :octicons-law-16: &nbsp; **[Respect the profile guidelines](guidelines.md)**

</div>


## Add a blank profile

1. To add a new profile `foo`, add the file `foo` in [`apparmor.d/profile-a-f`](https://github.com/roddhjav/apparmor.d/blob/main/apparmor.d/profiles-a-f).
   If your profile is part of a large group of profiles, it can also go in
   [`apparmor.d/groups`](https://github.com/roddhjav/apparmor.d/blob/main/apparmor.d/groups).

2. Write the profile content, the rules depend on the confined program,
   Here is the bare minimum for the program `foo`:
``` sh
# apparmor.d - Full set of apparmor profiles
# Copyright (C) 2025 You <your@email>
# SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only

abi <abi/4.0>,

include <tunables/global>

@{exec_path} = @{bin}/foo
profile foo @{exec_path} {
  include <abstractions/base>

  @{exec_path} mr,

  include if exists <local/foo>
}

# vim:syntax=apparmor
```

## Development Install

It is not recommended installing the full project *"manually"* (with `just complain`, `sudo just install`). The distribution specific packages are intended to be used in development as they include additional rule to ensure compatibility with upstream (see `debian/`, `PKGBUILD` and `dists/apparmor.d.spec`).

Instead, install an individual profile or the development package, the following way.

### Development package

=== ":material-arch: Archlinux"

    ```sh
    just pkg
    ```

=== ":material-ubuntu: Ubuntu"

    ```sh
    just dpkg
    ```

=== ":material-debian: Debian"

    ```sh
    just dpkg
    ```

=== ":simple-suse: openSUSE"

    ```sh
    just rpm
    ```

=== ":material-docker: Docker"

    For any system with docker installed you can simply build the package with:

    ```sh
    just package <distribution>
    ```

    Then you can install the package with `dpkg`, `pacman` or `rpm`.

### Individual profile

**Format**

```sh
just dev <profile-name>
```

**Exampe**

:   Testing the profile `pass`

    ```
    just dev pass
    ```

    This:

    - Prebuild the `pass` profile in complain mode to `.build`,
    - Install the profile to `/etc/apparmor.d/`
    - Load the profile by restarting the AppArmor service.

For this individual profile installation to work, the full package needs to be installed, regardless of the installation method ([dev](#development-package) or [stable](../install.md)).

## Program Profiling

### Workflow

To discover the access needed by a program, you can use the following tools:

1. Start the program in *complain* mode, let it initialize itself, then close it.

1. Run **[`aa-log -r`](../usage.md#apparmor-log)**. It will:
    - Convert the logs to AppArmor rules.
    - Detect if flags such as `attach_disconnected` are needed.
    - Convert all common paths to **[variables](../variables.md)**.

1. From `aa-log` output, you can:
    - Copy the rules to the profile.
    - Replace some rules with **[abstractions](abstractions.md)** as 80% of the rules should already be covered by an abstraction.

1. Then, [update the profile](#individual-profile) and start the program again. Use the program as you would normally do, but also try to run all the features of the program, e.g.: open the help, settings, etc.

1. Run **[`aa-log`](../usage.md#apparmor-log)**. Stop the program as long as you get over 100 new rules. Add the rules to the profile.

After 2 or 3 iterations, you should have a working profile.

### Recommendations

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-function: &nbsp; **[Use the abstractions](abstractions.md)**
-   :simple-files: &nbsp; **[Learn how to open resources](internal.md#open-resources)**
-   :fontawesome-solid-bus-simple: &nbsp; **[Learn how Dbus rules are handled](dbus.md)**
-   :material-sign-direction: &nbsp; **[Learn about directives `#aa:`](directives.md)**
-   :octicons-law-16: &nbsp; **[Follow the profile guidelines](guidelines.md)**
-   :octicons-light-bulb-16: &nbsp; **[See other recommendations](recommendations.md)**

</div>

!!! danger "Warning"

    Following the [profile guidelines](guidelines.md) is **mandatory** for all profiles. PRs that do not follow the guidelines will not get merged.

### Tools

* **[aa-notify](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/AppArmor#Get_desktop_notification_on_DENIED_actions)** is a tool that will allow you to get notified on every apparmor log.

* **[aa-logprof](https://man.archlinux.org/man/aa-logprof.8)** is another tool that will help you to generate a profile from logs. However, the logs generated by `aa-logprof` need to be rewritten to comply with the profile [guidelines](guidelines.md).

* **[aa-complain](https://man.archlinux.org/man/aa-complain.8), aa-enforce** are tools to quickly change the mode of a profile.


## Development Settings

### Profile flags

Flags for all profiles in this project are tracked under the [`dists/flags`](https://github.com/roddhjav/apparmor.d/tree/main/dists/flags) directory. It is used for profile that are not considered stable. Files in this directory should respect the following format: `<profile> <flags>`, flags should be comma separated.

For instance, to move `adb` in *complain* mode, edit **[`dists/flags/main.flags`](https://github.com/roddhjav/apparmor.d/blob/main/dists/flags/main.flags)** and add the following line:
```sh
adb complain
```

Beware, flags defined in this file overwrite flags in the profile. So you may need to add other flags. Example for `gnome-shell`:
```sh
gnome-shell attach_disconnected,mediate_deleted,complain
```


### Ignore profiles

It can be handy to not install a profile for a given distribution. Profiles and directories to ignore are tracked under the [`dists/ignore`](https://github.com/roddhjav/apparmor.d/tree/main/dists/ignore) directory. Files in this directory should respect the following format: `<profile or path>`. One ignore by line. It can be a profile name or a directory to ignore (relative to the project root).
